[Music]
it's crazy you really can't plan
anything around here we've just had a
call from the fire department saying
they found a baby sloth
hey sam hey max they say it's a newborn
baby sloth i don't know if
it's two-toed or three-toed i don't know
anything other than we have to go meet
them we have to go
now let's jump in
luckily it's only a 20-minute drive to
the fire station
in the nearby town of quepos it's crazy
i mean sometimes it's such a wild one
but when a new animal comes in
especially something like
a baby sloth you have to react really
quickly
go right away because every day every
hour every minute can make a difference
in whether they survive or not so you
better give me some directions i've got
no idea where the fire station is
just keep going you're going the right
way
wow it's barely got any hair
[Music]
it looks brand new absolutely tiny
though isn't it
it's okay if i hi
how many days old do you think this
little guy could be i'll do a better
exam once we get to the clinic but mere
days old
thank you
[Music]
what did the guy say where did they find
him apparently there was a couple
walking along the beach this morning
and they heard him crying they make a
really loud crying noise when they're
not with their mothers
and so they found them and they looked
everywhere for the mom but they couldn't
find her anywhere
that's when they called 9-1-1 this is
definitely a newborn that we're dealing
with here this is going to be
tricky
the first stop is the center's clinic
for a thorough
checkover so i'm just going to look over
his body a little bit
and see if we see any kind of wounds or
anything that's abnormal
he looks good i don't see any wounds at
all so that's good
let's turn him over and look at his
belly so his
belly button the umbilical cord is gone
but it's still inflamed so it looks like
the umbilical cord came off very
recently
it's really gripping on me the last
thing that goes is
their grip the fact that he still has an
extremely strong grip i mean that's
really really good
he's actually 275 grams
very small and he's at the bottom of the
normal weight range for
two-toed sloths honestly he's just so
tiny that
before we give him a proper name i think
we'll just call him tiny
tiny is the smallest sloth that sam has
ever looked after
and at this age one of the biggest risks
is dehydration
all right bud here we go it's critical
that sam can get fluids into him
fast
oh my gosh look good job bud
that's amazing that's this is like the
best
result that we could possibly hope for
because not only does he want to drink
but he's
clearly knows what he's doing he's just
so ridiculously tiny how much fluid do
you need to get inside him
if i could get five milliliters in him
then i think that that would be
a pretty good place to start for now and
at the next feeding in a couple hours
i'll try again
and just keep going like that throughout
the day
tiny is just so small i don't think i've
ever seen a baby animal
this vulnerable and now for sam it's
going to be a massive commitment she's
going to look after him
24 7 feeding him every few hours
and she's probably not going to get much
sleep
one of the biggest of these webs which
may be two yards or so across
is constructed by the nephilim spider
she is huge her legs can span six inches
and she's virtually blind
a fly blundering into her web is quickly
seized
she rapidly injects it with a venom that
will liquefy the contents of its body
she then wraps it up in silk and parks
it on the web
to allow the venom to take its effect
but nephila is not alone on her web
argyrodes is tiny much smaller even than
the fly
and she could easily become a meal for
nephilim she too
is blind but she's also felt the
vibrations of the struggling fly
with what seems like suicidal
recklessness
she approaches nephilim still feasting
on her prey
and she too begins to eat food that
nephilim not only caught
but has conveniently pre-digested
another capture calls neffler away
[Music]
once again she stabs the fly trusses it
up
and carries it away to hang on the side
of the web she'll eat that later
archerodes seems well aware of what's
going on
as soon as nephila has finished hanging
up her latest catch
archerodes starts trying to discover its
precise position
by pulling the web filaments
nephilim has returned to finish her
first meal
[Music]
meanwhile argyrodes has run a line from
the top of the web to the fly
which is now cutting loose
once the fly is free of the web she
lowers it down
[Music]
the stolen fly is now hanging entirely
free
nephilim won't be able to reclaim it now
even so argirotes must get it away to a
place
where she can feed on it in safety
step by step she heaves it up
her theft is complete one of the stars
of
tiny giants is a creature that lives in
the deserts of the
of arizona it's called a grasshopper
locals call it scorpion mouse it doesn't
just eat
insects or ordinary creatures it
actually goes out and hunts
scorpions what's remarkable about that
is that a scorpion
is about the same size of the mouth so
it's like a lion taking on
a scorpion that would be six feet or
eight feet long so it's an incredible
battle and what's amazing
is that this scorpion mask has got a lot
of tricks up its sleeve one
it can move so fast it can avoid the
scorpion strike
two it's immune to the scorpion's venom
and three it apparently feels no pain
it's co-evolved
with the scorpions that live in the
arizona desert and there's a kind of
perpetual battle
between the two of them over millions of
years as the
then of the scorpion gets more toxic so
the mouse has to develop
greater and greater immunity to that
toxin one of the reasons why
scorpions are poisonous enough to kill
people is because they've been forced to
be so toxic
to deal with that mouse and the other
thing is when you watch it
when it's actually fighting and hunting
this scorpion we shot it in super slow
motion you realize that actually it
shuts its eyes and just uses its
whiskers to feel
so it's responding to the strike of this
scorpion not by looking but by just like
feeling the vibrations by its whiskers
that makes it a superhero it's a very
territorial animal
it's a very aggressive animal actually
and rather like a wolf
it protects or it defends its territory
by howling at the moon
so the little creature walks up onto a
rock throws its head back
and oh how's them and of course when you
hear it
it's a little but when we filmed it we
filmed it and we pitch shifted the
sounds down because we're working in
we're trying to give this the sense of
what it's like to live in their world
so we pitch shifted it down so you hear
it as they would hear it when this
howl
slugs are fair game for driver ants
they don't run away
the first ant makes contact
and then another others come running
the slug tries to sit out the attack
there are so many ants
a victim uses the only escape route left
to it
the ants fall too they often use this
unconventional way to get down from the
trees
but the unfortunate slug has fallen from
the frying pan
into the fire
an awful lot of ants are milling about
down here
they smother their prey
but the slug has a trick up its sleeve
it may be slow
but it's well protected
its entire body is covered in a thick
and noxious slime
it's so glutinous that once their jaws
are in
they can't get them out
other ants seem to give a helping hand
but this one is firmly stuck
try as she might she just can't get away
[Music]
for some it's not just their jaws that
are trapped
she's almost free
then something remarkable happens
some of the workers begin to bring
particles of soil
and place them on the slug in this way
the slime is soaked up like ink on
blotting paper
gradually the slug disappears under a
rising mass of earth and ants
with its protective coat neutralized the
ants attack the slug underneath
slowly the victim is sliced up
will eat anything that moves
including other mantids
time to leave
this tiny insect is now open to attack
from predators lurking in the
undergrowth
[Music]
whether an individual mantis survives or
not
is partly a matter of chance
whether it's spotted by a predator
[Music]
whether it turns right or left
so far it's luck has held
but this hungry jumping spider is still
in pursuit
a mantis is born with exceptional
eyesight
but the spiders is even better
[Music]
although this young mantis can't yet fly
its long four legs
evolved to catch prey give it reach
[Music]
there seems to be no escape
but this mantis has a surprising line in
self-defense
kung fu praying mantis style
[Music]
of course it's all bluff trying to look
bigger
and confuse its enemy
but it's got a way with it
[Music]
just staying alive for its first few
hours
is a significant accomplishment for a
new enhanced insect
but there's still a long way to go with
a bit of luck
in two months time it will be as big and
beautiful
as this orchid mounted
[Music]
or maybe not
after all mantids are cannibals
[Music]
foreign